---
layout: post
title: Logs for the Community Meeting Held on 2017-10-28
summary: Community highlights, Forum Funding System updates, ByteRub meetup kit, 34C3, RFC-HWALLET-1, ByteRub integrations, upcoming meetups, community survey, and miscellaneous
tags: [community]
author: dEBRUYNE / fluffypony
---

# Logs  

**\<sgp>** Meeting is starting  
**\<sgp>** 0. Introduction  
**\<sgp>** We would like to welcome everyone to this ByteRub Community Meeting!  
**\<sgp>** Link to agenda on GitHub: https://github.com/byterubpay/meta/issues/132  
**\<sgp>** ByteRub Community meetings are a discussion place for anything going on in the ByteRub Community. We use meetings to encourage the community to share ideas and provide support.  
**\<sgp>** 1. Greetings  
**\<vp11>** hey there lovely people  
**\<erciccione>** hi  
**\<btrscott[m]>** Salutations  
**\<endogenic>** o/  
**\<sgp>** 2. Community highlights  
**\<sgp>** For a great weekly summary, please read the ByteRub Observer: http://byterub-observer.com/  
**\<sgp>** The ByteRub Observer’s FFS proposal has been fully-funded!  
**\<sgp>** 3. FFS updates  
**\<sgp>** There are several FFS updates.  
**\<sgp>** a. ByteRub Meetup Kit  
**\<sgp>** I don’t have anything to add here except that it is now in Funding Required: https://forum.getbyterub.org/8/funding-required/88374/byterub-meetup-kit  
**\<sgp>** b. 34C3 congress preparations  
**\<sgp>** @msvb-lab would you like to comment about this?  
**\<michael>** Minute?  
**\<sgp>** Anyone have anything to discuss regarding this event?  
**\<sgp>** Ok, well if they join us, we can go back  
**\<vp11>** i have a question  
**\<vp11>** for the byterub meetup kit  
**\<sgp>** @vp11 go ahead  
**\<vp11>** how the groups are going to be selected to receive the kit? do you already have an application draft?  
**\<vp11>** i wouldn't apply because brazil is far away :P but I was just curious  
**\<vp11>** and this gave enough time to msvb-lab to join :)  
**\<sgp>** I will create an application form once the webcam covers arrive. For these first few kits, it will only be for groups in the US  
**\<sgp>** serhack and I will discuss these. If anyone else would like to help also, PM me and you can help too  
**\<msvb-lab>** Travelling a bit and screwey Internet. Sorry, I'm here now.  
**\<vp11>** but are there minimum requirements that you have in mind? like number of people who will join the event, etc etc, or you're still brainstorming how it will work?  
**\<vp11>** oh nice  
**\<vp11>** that's cool  
**\<sgp>** Target of 50 people at the event  
**\<sgp>** So preference towards groups that have consistently had strong attendance  
**\<vp11>** makes sense, thanks!  
**\<sgp>** @msvb-lab feel free to jump in. I know you have several items you want to discuss  
**\<msvb-lab>** sgp: Yes cool, parasew[m] are we talking about 34C3 here now?  
**\<sgp>** Yeah  
**\<msvb-lab>** We don't have anything concrete about 34C3 (the end of year large conferernce in Leipzig.)  
**\<sgp>** Then you can talk about the hardware wallet after too  
**\<msvb-lab>** Just want to announce we'll be present as ByteRub in the Cryptocurrency assembly.  
**\<msvb-lab>** The hardware wallet forum post mandates that we do progress status reports in byterub-dev meetings.  
**\<msvb-lab>** ...but we moved away from them, so the question is if we're at home here?  
**\<sgp>** I say you can have some, but don't get too technical here  
**\<msvb-lab>** Some wanted to keep the byterub-dev meetings software only.  
**\<msvb-lab>** sgp: Then if nobody objects, we'll keep things neat and basic, and do status reporting here.  
**\<sgp>** Anyone have any thoughts? Are high-level updates cool for everyone?  
**\<vp11>** the community funded the project so it makes sense to share progress reports here, I don't see a problem with that. as @sgp said, just take care to not go super technical.  
**\<msvb-lab>** Like now I can say that we're becoming a stable team and have created together a first prototype.  
**\<msvb-lab>** https://taiga.getbyterub.org/media/attachments/1/e/2/5/ee5db3efec91a39cab0f35f243f54513ac8437d56bd18cc8e5a2910f7c4c/assembled_flashed.jpg  
**\<msvb-lab>** Photos are good for non technical discussion fodder, no?  
**\<vp11>** cool pic  
**\<msvb-lab>** A question, does anyone know where the source code went for the last state of Trezor ByteRub firmware port?  
**\<sgp>** Photos are especially good  
**\<vp11>** yeah, photos are great!  
**\<msvb-lab>** Like this post basically killed the Trezor port:  
**\<msvb-lab>** https://forum.getbyterub.org/9/work-in-progress/265/adding-byterub-support-for-trezor?page=&noscroll=1#post-1520  
**\<msvb-lab>** ...but we can't find the firmware that was created up until that point.  
**\<nioc>** msvb-lab: I forget who has the trezor "snap shot" but they might know in dev  
**\<sgp>** @msvb-lab this is all I have, and the links are dead https://forum.getbyterub.org/4/academic-and-technical/2495/experimental-trezor-firmware-testing  
**\<vp11>** it's proprietary, right? does someone have it?  
**\<msvb-lab>** sgp: Yes, we found lots of dead links too.  
**\<msvb-lab>** vp11: Trezor firmware is Opensource.  
**\<msvb-lab>** ...as we are of course.  
**\<msvb-lab>** nioc: Hey cool, thanks for the advice. I'll check again in -dev.  
**\<sgp>** It was NoodleDoodle  
**\<msvb-lab>** sgp: NoodleDoodle still hangs out here, or mostly in -dev?  
**\<vp11>** msvb-lab, didn't know that, thanks for the education  
**\<sgp>** Mostly in -dev  
**\<msvb-lab>** sgp: Okay cool, so this weeks 'status update' is rather unorganised due to travel, sorry.  
**\<msvb-lab>** But that's all I have an can of course answer questions if folks are curious.  
**\<sgp>** @msvb-lab no worries, we've all been there  
**\<sgp>** Any questions for him?  
**\<vp11>** no questions but I'm excited for this project :)  
**\<vp11>** the progress reports will be welcome  
**\<msvb-lab>** vp11: Cool, check out:  
**\<msvb-lab>** https://taiga.getbyterub.org/project/michael-rfc-hwallet-1-implementation/  
**\<nioc>** sgp: somebody besides noodledoodle has it, I don't think he wants anything to do with it now  
**\<msvb-lab>** ...and sign up as a tester or something.  
**\<vp11>** amazing, will do!  
**\<msvb-lab>** nioc: What would your strategy be for finding it, since 'somebody besides' == many people?  
**\<msvb-lab>** ask on byterub-dev right? If that's the strategy then I understood correctly.  
**\<sgp>** -dev is the best place to ask  
**\<nioc>** msvb-lab: I just remember it being disclosed in -dev  
**\<msvb-lab>** nioc: Cool, thanks again.  
**\<dEBRUYNE>** msvb-lab: https://github.com/prusnak/trezor-btr/commits/master  
**\<dEBRUYNE>** This is part of it  
**\<nioc>** it might not be a dev but an long time community member  
**\<msvb-lab>** dEBRUYNE: Interesting, that looks very good. Might be what we're after.  
**\<vp11>** dEBRUYNE always comes to save the day  
**\<sgp>** Yup :)  
**\<sgp>** @msvb-lab anything else you want to discuss before we move on?  
**\<msvb-lab>** sgp: No, thanks for giving me the chance to speak.  
**\<sgp>** d. ByteRub Integrations  
**\<sgp>** Serhack is busy today, but you can see the latest update on the work here: https://www.reddit.com/r/ByteRub/comments/7938pb/byterub_integrations_update_10/  
**\<serhack>** Hey :)  
**\<sgp>** Oh, apparently he can still drop by!  
**\<sgp>** @serhack anything else you want to add?  
**\<serhack>** No :)  
**\<serhack>** Expect some news soon  
**\<sgp>** Cool. Everyone read the linked update if interested  
**\<sgp>** 4. Upcoming Meetups  
**\<rehrar>** Yay  
**\<sgp>** There will be a ByteRub Meetup in LA on November 7th: https://www.meetup.com/preview/ByteRub-Los-Angeles/events/242968913  
**\<sgp>** Does anyone know of other events coming up?  
**\<serhack>** A secret project is cooming soon  
**\<dEBRUYNE>** msvb-lab: there's these two too: https://github.com/jedigras/noodledoodle_btr_trezor/commits/master & https://github.com/jedigras/trezor-btr/commits/master  
**\<vp11>** ohhhh these secret projects!!  
**\<serhack>** Expect a b ... ops :)  
**\<sgp>** I'll let serhack discuss it when he's ready, but it will require many volunteers  
**\<sgp>** 5. Community Survey  
**\<sgp>** btr\_eric posted the results from his third survey, with over 500 responses: https://www.reddit.com/r/ByteRub/comments/794v43/byterub_community_survey_3_results_over_500/  
**\<sgp>** I want to take a few minutes and discuss the results.  
**\<serhack>** Yeah @sgp.  Not now  
**\<serhack>** ByteRub community is awesome  
**\<sgp>** We have a lot of active people!  
**\<notcreative>** anyone know if there is an official remote note that I can connect to rather than local copy?  
**\<sgp>** Did anyone find any of the results surprising?  
**\<serhack>** But there are some "devs" that don't/ can't contribute  
**\<serhack>** That's interesting  
**\<vp11>** I did find the results very interesting  
**\<sgp>** notcreative: no official ones, but check out byterubworld.com  
**\<vp11>** I wanted even to discuss if we could do something to promote OpenAlias more.  
**\<vp11>** I find it's a great feature for newcomers into the cryptocurrency scene.  
**\<notcreative>** @sgp - Thanks  
**\<sgp>** @vp11 I think we should promote it more to businesses  
**\<sgp>** Most people don't own their own domain  
**\<vp11>** indeed, business would love having their "main hot wallet" with something easy like byterub@domain.com for payments.  
**\<vp11>** I know there's a tutorial on byterub.how  
**\<vp11>** but maybe do a more graphic tutorial and promote it? I don't know. anyway, it's only one of the interesting points from the community survey.  
**\<sgp>** I think OpenAlias is something people will not typically know of by name but understand how it works when they use it  
**\<sgp>** Like not many normal people understand how DNS works but they know how to go to getbyterub.org  
**\<vp11>** exactly  
**\<sgp>** Also, OpenAlias gets kinda messy if you need payment IDs  
**\<sgp>** Poloniex couldn't use deposit.poloniex.com since they need a payment ID/integrated address  
**\<vp11>** hmm that makes sense. I guess that while normal email providers don't support the option this will be something for "niche" only?  
**\<vp11>** like institutions or websites asking for donation (no need for payment id)  
**\<vp11>** or normal people with their own domains  
**\<sgp>** It may be. I don't think it makes sense for anything requiring a payment ID  
**\<vp11>** indeed  
**\<sgp>** Anyone else have any thoughts?  
**\<sgp>** Thanks btr\_eric for making the survey, and thanks everyone who took the time to respond  
**\<sgp>** 6. Open ideas time  
**\<sgp>** It’s open ideas time! Feel free to propose your ideas to this discussion group, and feel free to comment on others’ ideas. If you disagree with the idea, please reply with constructive criticism. Thank you!  
**\<msvb-lab>** I really like the byterub.how site, didn't know it existed until today.  
**\<sgp>** It's been some time since we've had an adequate discussion time during a meeting  
**\<vp11>** byterub.how is so good, seriously one of the best websites for byterub out there  
**\<sgp>** @msvb-lab knaccc has done a great job with it, hasn't he?  
**\<msvb-lab>** I wonder if part of the meetup kit could be text based.  
**\<msvb-lab>** Like a card with four links, a paragraph description, some simple stuff, a few diagrams.  
**\<msvb-lab>** ...if I have stickers and stuff then I would keep this card together with them.  
**\<sgp>** It will include flyers and this infographic (https://www.byterub.how/byterub-infographic). What do you think it missing?  
**\<msvb-lab>** sgp: Cool, no that's most precicely what I had in mind.  
**\<sgp>** Great  
**\<msvb-lab>** Good to see that others have covered the need.  
**\<vp11>** as I said yesterday, I'll donate the getbyterub.com.br domain for the ByteRub Project once we get the localisation project for the website going. just wanted to say it here to make it official and logged on github :)  
**\<vp11>** I'll use another domain for the brazilian community initiative  
**\<sgp>** @vp11 keeping yourself accountable :P  
**\<sgp>** I can't wait until the website is localized. Lots of work being done  
**\<sgp>** Can anyone make a plush ByteRub cat? I would totally buy one https://www.reddit.com/r/btrtrader/comments/791w4r/daily_discussion_friday_october_27th/doystjw/  
**\<sgp>** Also a ByteRub sweater  
**\<msvb-lab>** We don't really have a mascot do we? Maybe it should be a cat.  
**\<vp11>** msvb-lab, we kinda have  
**\<vp11>** it's byterub cat  
**\<msvb-lab>** vp11: How does one know this?  
**\<sgp>** https://ip.bitcointalk.org/?u=http%3A%2F%2Fi.imgur.com%2FFpEboZL.png&t=581&c=fHuK94WKFrPfhg  
**\<sgp>** From an old Bitcointalk post  
**\<msvb-lab>** Wow, very nice.  
**\<sgp>** From hitbtc lmao https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=583449.msg7527905#msg7527905  
**\<vp11>** msvb-lab, there's even comics about ByteRub Cat, come on man.  
**\<vp11>** https://www.reddit.com/r/ByteRub/comments/78wctn/who_is_byterub_cat_episode_6_for_oct_26_is_out/  
**\<vp11>** I want a ByteRub sweater, gonna ask my mother to make me one.  
**\<sgp>** I created this really long post earlier this week: https://steemit.com/byterub/@sgp/7yjqso-a-byterub-introduction-for-beginners  
**\<sgp>** Does anyone have constructive criticism of it?  
**\<vp11>** only destructive ;) not really, I thought it was a good read.  
**\<msvb-lab>** sgp: You saved that until the end? Nice thing to read, I'll definitely be checking it out. Diagrams are great.  
**\<msvb-lab>** Speaking of saving until the end, I forgot to mention that anonimal and I were interviewed by BTCManager:  
**\<msvb-lab>** https://btcmanager.com/interview-byterub-hardware-wallet-pioneer-michael-schloh-and-kovri-dev-anonimal/  
**\<vp11>** cool, I really like btcmanager, it's one of my favorites website. will surely check it out, thanks for sharing msvb-lab  
**\<sgp>** Yeah, btcmanager has written some solid articles lately  
**\<msvb-lab>** We have a journalist there on our side.  
**\<rehrar>** Yeah  
**\<sgp>** Does anyone have any final remarks?  
**\<rehrar>** Nah  
**\<vp11>** love you all guys :)  
**\<sgp>** 7. Confirm next meeting date/time  
**\<sgp>** The next meeting will two weeks from today on 10 November at 17:00 UTC.  
**\<sgp>** Keep in mind that the second ByteRub Coffee Chat is next Saturday 4 November  
**\<msvb-lab>** Thanks for moderating sgp[m], see you all later.  
**\<sgp>** In future discussions, I would like to focus the conversation around using social media and getting some new faces involved here  
**\<vp11>** nice, do we already know what platform we will be using next time?  
**\<sgp>** I've been in dicussion with Jitsi and they're convinced our bug is incredibly rare, so we will use that again. However, it will actually be streamed to YouTube this time for most people to view  
**\<sgp>** 8. Conclusion  
**\<sgp>** That’s all! Thanks for attending this ByteRub Community meeting, and we hope to see you on /r/ByteRubCommunity and #byterub-community. Take care, and know that change starts with YOU.  