---
layout: post
title: Logs for the Community Meeting Held on 2018-09-29
summary: Community highlights, Forum Funding System updates, Workgroup report, and miscellaneous
tags: [dev diaries, community, crypto]
author: el00ruobuob / SamsungGalaxyPlayer
---

# Logs  

**\<sgp_>** meeting time  
**\<sgp_>** yeah it is wild, keep an eye on that too  
**\<sgp_>**  0. Introduction  
**\<sgp_>**  We would like to welcome everyone to this ByteRub Community Meeting!  
**\<sgp_>**  Link to agenda on GitHub: https://github.com/byterubpay/meta/issues/280  
**\<sgp_>**  ByteRub Community meetings are a discussion place for anything going on in the ByteRub Community, including other ByteRub workgroups. We use meetings to encourage the community to share ideas and provide support. Stay up to date with the latest events by subscribing to this calendar: https://xmr.ncrypt.sh/index.php/apps/calendar/p/8dP6z6XQDnkPREo4/ByteRub-Meetings  
**\<sgp_>**  1. Greetings  
**\<el00ruobuob_[m]>** Hello!  
**\<ErCiccione>** Hi  
**\<midipoet>** Greets  
**\<xmrmatterbridge> \<txmr>** Hi  
**\<rehrar>** hi  
**\<lafudoci>** Hi  
**\<sgp_>** welcome everyone  
**\<sgp_>**  2. Community highlights  
**\<xmrmatterbridge> \<serhack>** Hi  
**\<sgp_>**  UNICEF France now accepts payment in cryptocurrencies, including ByteRub: https://blockmanity.com/news/cryptocurrency-good-unicef-france-now-accepts-donations-cryptocurrencies/  
**\<sgp_>**  Diego gave a great speech about ByteRub on the ‚ÄúNew Kids on the Blockchain‚Äù channel: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3G2G8VOE5ks  
**\<byterubbux>** [ üî•ByteRub - Privacy Coin Crypto News! üî• blockchain technology - YouTube ] - www.youtube.com  
**\<sgp_>**  Watch the ByteRub Coffee Chat from last week, which unfortunately ran into technical issues: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=tD9HMx-i2Zk  
**\<byterubbux>** [ ByteRub Coffee Chat: 2018.09.22 - YouTube ] - www.youtube.com  
**\<sgp_>**  ByteRub published a post mortem of the burning bug: https://getbyterub.org/2018/09/25/a-post-mortum-of-the-burning-bug.html  
**\<sgp_>**  ByteRub‚Äôs volume on Bisq is increasing over time; give it a try! https://twitter.com/bisq_network/status/1042834952251949056  
**\<byterubbux>** [ Bisq on Twitter: "Today‚Äôs Market Kick Start has been quite a success so far. So far we‚Äôve seen: - As many as 237 open offers (a record) - 64 completed trades (a record) - 34 BTC in volume And it‚Äô ] - twitter.com  
**\<sgp_>**  ByteRub Talk spoke with Satis group to learn more about their estimate of ByteRub reaching $40,000 in 10 years: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HI9bj6z6WQQ  
**\<byterubbux>** [ ByteRub $18,000 in 5 years? A talk with Satis Group. - YouTube ] - www.youtube.com  
**\<sgp_>**  Does anyone else have community updates to share?  
**\<ErCiccione>** the ByteRub Ecosystem has a new project: https://github.com/byterub-ecosystem/moneriote-python  
**\<sgp_>** oh yeah, forgot to mention that John Foss now publishes a weekly newsletter about ByteRub updates. Here's the most recent: https://medium.com/@johnfoss/the-byterub-moon-issue-3-63255585c333  
**\<sgp_>**  3. FFS updates  
**\<sgp_>**  There are several Forum Funding System (FFS) updates. Workgroup reports now have their own section.  
**\<sgp_>**  byterubmooo, sarang, and surae‚Äôs proposals were fully funded!  
**\<sgp_>**  FFS proposals still asking for funds:  
**\<sgp_>**  el00ruobuob: part time for a new quarter: https://forum.getbyterub.org/8/funding-required/90757/el00ruobuob-part-time-for-a-new-quarter-october-december  
**\<sgp_>**  ByteRub Ecosystem translation to Brazilian Portuguese: https://forum.getbyterub.org/8/funding-required/90652/byterub-ecosystem-translation-to-brazilian-portuguese  
**\<sgp_>**  Send Justin to BlockchainNW: https://forum.getbyterub.org/8/funding-required/90808/send-justin-to-blockchainnw  
**\<sgp_>**  ErCiccione: Coordinator of the localization workgroup: https://forum.getbyterub.org/8/funding-required/90800/erciccione-coordinator-of-the-localization-workgroup-translations-another-quarter  
**\<sgp_>**  rehrar has a proposal but has asked people to NOT donate yet.  
**\<rehrar>** I have an update on that  
**\<sgp_>**  m2049r opened a FFS proposal for another quarter of part-time development: https://forum.getbyterub.org/6/ideas/90849/m2049r-part-time-september-november  
**\<sgp_>** all right, go ahead rehrar  
**\<rehrar>** and a request  
**\<rehrar>** My update is that the costs for Vegas have been more or less quantified and are now in the proposal for viewing  
**\<rehrar>** But my trip to Norway is also starting to be a bit shaky due to personal issues (quite sick elderly family)  
**\<rehrar>** I was wondering if anybody here would be willing to go on my behalf. That would solve the problem instantaneously and relieve me of a lot of stress.  
**\<sgp_>** What are the dates again?  
**\<rehrar>** https://cryptofinance.no  
**\<rehrar>** Nov 16-17  
**\<rehrar>** if nobody volunteers, I will have to keep an eye and gauge familial health and it'll be touch and go for a while  
**\<midipoet>** If the funding still available for whoever goes?  
**\<rehrar>** It comes with a speech, and I can get further details.  
**\<rehrar>** Yes. They are providing lodging for the event.  
**\<midipoet>** Or will it either need to be self funded/new FFS?  
**\<rehrar>** FFS can be used to cover flight.  
**\<rehrar>** and other incidentals  
**\<midipoet>** I can probably do it. I am close as well.... just have to check flight cost  
**\<rehrar>** Great. Please PM me for more details.  
**\<rehrar>** Wire is fine.  
**\<midipoet>** Oh that's good. My IRC PM skills are lacking  
**\<sgp_>** thanks midipoet. there's essentially no way I could get there  
**\<rehrar>** Thanks guys. Feels good knowing this community has my back.  
**\<midipoet>** It's ByteRub's back we got not you :p  
**\<rehrar>** :'(  
**\<Inge->** pffft  
**\<midipoet>** Lol  
**\<sgp_>** m2049r opened a FFS proposal for another quarter of part-time development: https://forum.getbyterub.org/6/ideas/90849/m2049r-part-time-september-november  
**\<sgp_>**  Does anyone else have a FFS update, or comments about any of these FFS proposals?  
**\<el00ruobuob_[m]>** m2046r's FFS needs to be moved down to funding  
**\<ErCiccione>** ^ +1  
**\<xmrmatterbridge> \<txmr>** +1  
**\<rehrar>** will ping luigi about it  
**\<sgp_>** thanks  
**\<sgp_>**  4. Workgroup report  
**\<oneiric_>** I intend to open a new FFS for another quarter, but need to finish up some remaining stuff from my previous FFS  
**\<sgp_>**  a. ByteRub Malware Response Workgroup  
**\<sgp_>** we look forward to it oneiric_  
**\<oneiric_>** :)  
**\<sgp_>**  The Malware Response workgroup site is now up at mrw.getbyterub.org  
**\<sgp_>** If you want to help, idle in #byterub-mrw  
**\<sgp_>** Any questions?  
**\<oneiric_>** what's different from the VRP and that group?  
**\<sgp_>** good question  
**\<sgp_>** The VRP is meant to handle vulnerabilities in ByteRub  
**\<sgp_>** The MRW is meant to help people whose machines have been compromised and are being used to mine ByteRub or some other unwanted activity  
**\<el00ruobuob_[m]>** how could we help the group?  
**\<rehrar>** el00ruobuob_[m]: I actually have something very specific you can help me with.  
**\<rehrar>** PM me on Wire. We'll get it started.  
**\<el00ruobuob_[m]>** sure, pm me!  
**\<ErCiccione>** sgp_: i opened an issue on gitlab, if you guys want, the localization workgroup can take care of the localization of the website  
**\<rehrar>** Let's take it behind the scenes. Away from the prying eyes of public discourse.  
**\<ErCiccione>** but it's not ready to be translated at the moment. Don't know if you guys (rehrar?) plan to make it multilingual  
**\<el00ruobuob_[m]>** ErCiccione, which gitlab is it?  
**\<sgp_>** el00ruobuob_[m]: at the moment we need help covering the channel in case anyone has any questions. next steps going forward include 1) getting a ticketing system set up and getting people to support that system (working with the ByteRub Support workgroup), and 2) getting documentation compiled that people can use to help with certain malware, etc  
**\<ErCiccione>** el00ruobuob_[m]: https://repo.getbyterub.org/rehrar/malware-response-project  
**\<el00ruobuob_[m]>** thank you both  
**\<sgp_>** rehrar any notes about the localization? you've handled this more directly  
**\<rehrar>** el00ruobuob_[m]: that's the help I need. I'm testing some things on the ticketing system. An extra tester would help.  
**\<el00ruobuob_[m]>** for sure i'll hepl  
**\<rehrar>** sgp_ ErCiccione it's not Jekyllized yet. I can get on that hopefully fairly soon.  
**\<ErCiccione>** rehrar: sure, just ping me when ready so i can start to work on it  
**\<rehrar>** Should be too big of a pain. (said rehrar, not realizing the stupidity of what he just said)  
**\<rehrar>** \*shouldn't  
**\<sgp_>** if in the meantime someone wants to take on the primary role of handling the documentation for the supporters, including for removing specific malware, guides for talkign with people, and a history of articles reporting ByteRub malware, let me know  
**\<sgp_>** otherwise I'll get to it when I have time  
**\<sgp_>** Any other questions before we proceed?  
**\<dEBRUYNE>** I g2g in a bit, so just going to leave this here -> https://www.reddit.com/r/ByteRub/comments/9jx1ne/openbazaar_is_looking_for_byterub_integration/  
**\<byterubbux>** [REDDIT] OpenBazaar is looking for ByteRub Integration (https://youtu.be/Lt_3RdS30uk?t=38m14s) to r/ByteRub | 30 points (96.0%) | 12 comments | Posted by throwawayo12345 | Created at 2018-09-29 - 14:08:30  
**\<dEBRUYNE>** Hopefully someone can get in contact with them  
**\<sgp_>** sure dEBRUYNE, we'll talk about this during open ideas time  
**\<sgp_>**  b. Localization workgroup  
**\<sgp_>** ErCiccione, take it away  
**\<ErCiccione>** ook  
**\<rehrar>** Similar situation with me actually.  
**\<rehrar>** Exodus wallet wants to try to integrate ByteRub again  
**\<rehrar>** and I have been contacted asking if there'd be some people willing to help their engineers wrap their heads around ByteRub XD  
**\<sgp_>** ^ rehrar let's have ErCiccione talk first, then we can cover this during open ideas time  
**\<rehrar>** I'll probably be willing to help out there, but for the more technical things, I'll refer them to #byterub-dev unless someone really wants to see it there ASAP and is willing to help 'em out  
**\<rehrar>** oh, alright  
**\<ErCiccione>** so, localizations in the next weeks will be focused on the upcoming release. i already opened a Pull Request on byterub GUI (https://github.com/byterubpay/byterub-gui/pull/1572) to refresh all language files. When that one will be merged i will make a call for translators, as it happened for 0.12. Hopefully the PR will be merged soon, but it cointains a lot of changes, so let's hope somebody review it ASAP  
**\<ErCiccione>** btw, all languages will have just a bunch of new strings (about 11), so it will be an easy and quick job for translators  
**\<dEBRUYNE>** sgp_: thanks  
**\<ErCiccione>** also. The localization workgroup recently started to tace care of the documents of the outreach workgroup. you can find them along with instructions here: https://github.com/byterub-ecosystem/outreach-docs  
**\<ErCiccione>** i haven't updated taiga with the new stuff from the outreach workgroup yet, but i will do in the next days  
**\<ErCiccione>** ah  
**\<ErCiccione>** some days ago i made a call for translators for monerujo. It has some new strings and would be great to have people work on them. You can find the tasks marked as 'needed' on our Taiga backlog https://taiga.getbyterub.org/project/erciccione-byterub-localization/backlog  
**\<ErCiccione>** on the 'Monerujo' sprint  
**\<ErCiccione>** that's all for the news, but i need feedback from the community about a minor thing  
**\<ErCiccione>** i recently got a complete translation for the GUI in ... pirate language, from xmraargh, or whatever he is called  
**\<sgp_>** lmao  
**\<m2049r>** excellent  
**\<ErCiccione>** i mean, it's obviously not a serious translation, but it's complete and with its own flag. i would PR it and include it just for the lols, but i don't know how the community feels about it  
**\<xmrmatterbridge> \<txmr>** +1.  =)  
**\<ErCiccione>** you can find it here: https://github.com/erciccione/byterub-core/tree/pirate-lang  
**\<midipoet>** I think the ByteRub community, on the whole, are quite receptive to jokes.  
**\<ErCiccione>** and the flag displayed would be https://github.com/erciccione/byterub-core/blob/pirate-lang/lang/flags/pirate.png  
**\<ErCiccione>** :P  
**\<sgp_>** I think this is HILARIOUS  
**\<rehrar>** dude, let's do it  
**\<rehrar>** have him do the website too plz  
**\<m2049r>** and monerujo - please please please!  
**\<sgp_>** I recommend asking the outreach team just to make sure this won't be a PR disaster, but otherwise I vote yes  
**\<ErCiccione>** i like the idea a lot, and i think it could also be a good PR move  
**\<sgp_>** side Q: I thought we were moving away from flags representing languages?  
**\<midipoet>** Make sure you distance the translation FFS from the pirate translation and it should be fine  
**\<ErCiccione>** sgp_: we are in the intentions, but nobody PRd any change yet, so it will stay like this at least for 0.13  
**\<sgp_>** ok  
**\<ErCiccione>** what do you mean midipoet?  
**\<sgp_>** I asked the Outreach team, will report back if they have any comments  
**\<rehrar>** ok, I'll be leaving and present via mobile so it may take me a bit longer to respond  
**\<ErCiccione>** thanks sgp_, will wait to pr it for now. Anyway, i still have to test it properly  
**\<sgp_>** ok  
**\<sgp_>** any last localization items/questions?  
**\<ErCiccione>** nope, but if somebody have questions, here to answer  
**\<sgp_>** all right, it seems there are no more questions, so moving on  
**\<sgp_>**  c. ByteRub Outreach  
**\<sgp_>**  ByteRub Outreach published a list of 7 ‚ÄúByteRub Best Practices:‚Äù https://www.byteruboutreach.org/best-practices-for-byterub.php  
**\<sgp_>**  They updated their about page with a lot of information https://www.byteruboutreach.org/about.php  
**\<sgp_>**  For future updates, keep an eye on https://www.byteruboutreach.org  
**\<sgp_>** Please join their Telegram group if you want to participate and ask questions  
**\<sgp_>**  Do any other workgroups have something to report?  
**\<sgp_>** All right then  
**\<sgp_>**  5. Open ideas time  
**\<sgp_>**  It‚Äôs open ideas time! Feel free to propose your ideas to this discussion group, and feel free to comment on others‚Äô ideas. If you disagree with the idea, please reply with constructive criticism. Thank you!  
**\<midipoet>** Link to their Telegram chat says 'chat doesn't exist'  
**\<sgp_>** Let's start with OpenBazaar and Exodus  
**\<Mochi101>** Hey people. I just wanted to let you know that there's a new betting game out there for ByteRub - quite unique because you bet on the blockchain itself. Try and guess what the last digit of the block hash will be for the block right after the one your bet is sent in. Just 16 possibilities! Check it out and try your luck at https://byterub.win  
**\<sgp_>** midipoet https://t.me/joinchat/DM8-zUXYPy2QPEkH5hW3FA  
**\<midipoet>** betting with crypto. who would have known!  
**\<el00ruobuob_[m]>** Guys, i have to leave early, but i keep IRC up and take care of the meeting logs tomorrow  
**\<sgp_>** How can we help answer questions that others have about integration while using the fewest developer resources necessary? Tell people to reach Zero to ByteRub then come back with questions?  
**\<Mochi101>** New game though midipoet  
**\<midipoet>** thanks sgp_ That worked  
**\<Mochi101>** On chain cryptonote betting - no deposit except your bet.  
**\<midipoet>** Zero to ByteRub skips the first twenty digits at least (I felt reading it anyway!). Could just be me though  
**\<midipoet>** Also, Mastering ByteRub should be close....at least the authors were saying that recently...maybe send a pre publishing version?  
**\<sgp_>** I wonder if this is something serhack can handle with the Integrations workgroup  
**\<m2049r>** it may be good if more people reviewed ",mastering byterub"  
**\<xmrmatterbridge> \<serhack>** I have already contacted the Openbazaar team for ByteRub :)  
**\<sgp_>** this was a while ago, right?  
**\<xmrmatterbridge> \<serhack>** Regarding Mastering ByteRub, we are so close to releasing :) I'm improving the final details.  
**\<xmrmatterbridge> \<serhack>** Yes, it was a while ago. But I'm re- contacting them to discuss about ByteRub.  
**\<sgp_>** do you remember what they said last time?  
**\<xmrmatterbridge> \<serhack>** They were waiting for a detailed multisig explaination.  
**\<sgp_>** ah, I remember that now  
**\<midipoet>** I actually can't wait for Mastering ByteRub. :-)  
**\<sgp_>** it looks like they still need a lot of help understanding ByteRub better  
**\<xmrmatterbridge> \<serhack>** I forward the paper and then we are discussing how we could integrate ByteRub.  
**\<midipoet>** sgp_: doesn't everyone!  
**\<xmrmatterbridge> \<serhack>** Since OpenBazaar has a "multi-wallet" API, it's important to think firstly to protect privacy via ByteRub via OB.  
**\<sgp_>** serhack can you ping rehrar a few times to learn more about Exodus needs?  
**\<xmrmatterbridge> \<rehrar>** K  
**\<xmrmatterbridge> \<serhack>** Sure :)  
**\<sgp_>** Any other thoughts?  
**\<sgp_>** I had one idea for the VRP. I recommended to fluffypony that the VRP workgroup has a quarterly meeting to receive community feedback on the VRP process  
**\<sgp_>** if everyone is ready to call it quits for today, we can wrap up this meeting. thanks for coming!  
**\<sgp_>**  6. Confirm next meeting date/time  
**\<sgp_>**  The next community meeting will be two weeks from today on 13 October at 17:00 UTC. When in doubt, use the calendar: https://xmr.ncrypt.sh/index.php/apps/calendar/p/8dP6z6XQDnkPREo4/ByteRub-Meetings  
**\<sgp_>**  The next Coffee Chat will be on the 20 October at 16:00 UTC. Right after the protocol upgrade :)  
**\<sgp_>**  7. Conclusion  
**\<sgp_>**  That‚Äôs all! Thanks for attending this ByteRub Community meeting, and we hope to see you on /r/ByteRubCommunity and #byterub-community. Take care, and know that change starts with YOU.  
**\<ErCiccione>** thank you sgp_  
**\<m2049r>** ^
